PART B
TRAFFIC RULES & REGULATIONS

The Keep-Left Rules / Lane Discipline / Overtaking

THE KEEP-LEFT RULE
61 When driving along two-way streets, keep well to the left and as near as practicable to the boundary of the road, except when you
intend to overtake or turn right. Do not hog the middle of the road. This applies to dual-carriageways as well.
62 You must not cross the centre line at bends, near the crest of a rise or anywhere else where you cannot clearly see the road ahead.
63 Sometimes your path of travel may be obstructed by road works, parked vehicles etc. In such circumstances, to avoid the
obstruction, take extra care to ensure that your intended path is safe and clear before you move to the right. You may cross the
centre line if the roads are narrow.

LANE DISCIPLINE
64 You must obey the directions indicated by arrows marked in the lanes. See illustration below. You must not change lanes suddenly
as you may inconvenience or endanger other motorists. When changing lanes, give sufficient warning of your intention. Always
signal in advance. Failure to do so could cause an accident.
65 In traffic hold-ups, do not “jump the queue”. Trying to get
ahead of others by squeezing between lanes and overtaking
recklessly is courting disaster. Always be patient and have
consideration for other road users.
66 Well before you reach a junction, make sure that you get into
the correct lane for whichever direction you wish to take.
67 On a two-lane carriageway, keep to the lefthand lane except
when overtaking.
68 On a three-lane carriageway, you may keep to the centre lane
when the left-hand lane is occupied by slower moving
vehicles. The outer (right-hand) lane is for overtaking and
emergency vehicles only.

OVERTAKING
69 Never overtake unless you can do so without endangering yourself or others. Be especially careful at night, and in heavy rain and
mist. When visibility is poor, it becomes more difficult to judge speed and distance.
70 Always overtake on the right. There are, however, a few exceptions to this rule when you can overtake on the left:
(a) When the driver in front has signalled his/her intention to turn right.
(b) When you want to turn left at a junction.
(c) When traffic is moving slowly in queues and vehicles in the lanes on your right are moving more slowly than you are.
(d) On one-way streets (but not dual-carriageways) where vehicles may pass on either side.
71 After overtaking, return to the appropriate lane on the road as soon as it is safe to do so, but do not cut in sharply in front of the
vehicle you have just overtaken.
72 Do not overtake when you are at, or when you are approaching:
(a) A pedestrian crossing.
(b) A road junction.
(c) A corner or bend.
(d) The brow of a hill.
(e) Double white lines.
73 Do not overtake:
(a) Where the road narrows.
(b) If it would force another vehicle to swerve or reduce speed.
(c) If in doubt.
74 Do not increase your speed while being overtaken. Slow down if necessary to let the overtaking vehicle pass.
75 In the following cases, overtaking is dangerous and should not be attempted:
(a) When the car in front of you is about to overtake the car in front of it.
(b) When the car in front is changing from the left to the right lane in order to make a right turn.
(c) When you have to get into the path of oncoming traffic in order to overtake.

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

50
