PART C
LANE USE AND VARIABLE MESSAGE SIGNS (LUS) / EMERGENCY FACILITIES (TUNNELS)
LANE USE AND VARIABLE MESSAGE SIGNS (LUS)
240 Lane Use Signs are overhead signs in the KPE, CTE, MCE, Woodsville and Fort Canning
tunnels which are used to inform motorists of any precautions to take prior to proceeding
ahead on the lane. Each lane use sign will display either a green-down arrow, flashing
amber cross or a red cross. A green-down arrow indicates that a motorist can drive on
ahead; a flashing amber cross indicates that a motorist needs to drive with caution (e.g.
obstructions on the lane ahead); and a red cross indicates that a motorist shall not proceed
beyond the sign. Motorists travelling in the tunnel are to adhere to the displays shown on
these overhead lane use signs.
241 The Variable Message Signs on the road are used to disseminate traffic condition information to motorists.
There are various types of Variable Message Signs along the tunnels and at arterial roads leading to tunnels:
(a) Entrance Variable Message Signs (EVMS): Located at the entrance of the slip
road leading into the tunnel.

(b) Arterial Variable Message Signs (AVMS): Located along an arterial road that
leads to the entrance to the tunnel.

(c) Tunnel Variable Message Signs (TVMS): An overhead sign located in the tunnel.
242 For closure of the KPE, MCE and Woodsville tunnel, barriers and traffic signal controls at entry slip road approaches will be
activated.
243 Variable speed limit signs are also provided in the KPE and MCE tunnels. In smooth traffic
conditions, the display on the signs will show a posted speed limit (with a red ring) that requires
motorists’ compliance. At times of congestion, recommended lower speed limits can be
displayed (without a red ring) to smoothen out the flow, reduce the risk of flow breakdown and
minimise the risk of accidents.
244 KM markings are found on the vertical face of the kerb wall in the MCE, KPE and CTE tunnels
to provide location referencing for the motorists

EMERGENCY FACILITIES
Exit
245 Exit doors are located next to both the slow and fast lanes of the MCE, KPE and CTE tunnels.
246 Escape Staircase doors - These exit doors next to the slow lanes can generally be found at intervals of
500m in the main tunnel. There are also exit doors along the slip roads. These exit doors lead to escape
staircases which open up to surface roads or open areas.

247 Cross-passage doors - These exit doors next to the fast lanes are located at intervals of
100m in the main tunnel and they lead to the opposite-bound tunnel.
248 During an emergency, additional flashing lights at the doors will be lighted up to alert
motorists of the emergency situation and the need for evacuation, and to draw their
attention to the exit locations.

CTE Escape
Staircase Doors

CTE Cross
Passage Doors

Communication (OCC - Operations Control Centre)
249 Emergency telephones are provided in the tunnel next to the slow lane at approximately
100m intervals.
250 Each phone also has an amber light next to it that can be switched on to indicate to the
motorist the OCC’s intention to communicate with him/her in the MCE and KPE
tunnel. The motorist can pick up the phone set to speak to the OCC.

Emergency (SOS) Phone

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

82
