PART B
AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE (AV)
INTRODUCTION
224 An AV is a vehicle that can drive from a starting location to a pre-determined destination using various technologies and sensors
to sense its environment and navigate in autonomous mode.
225 As part of the long-term vision of deploying autonomous vehicles and shared-mobility concepts to complement our multi-modal
land transport system in Singapore, the Land Transport Authority (LTA) started facilitating AV trials in July 2015 at one-north.
The AV test-bed area was recently expanded to neighbouring areas such as the National University of Singapore, Singapore
Science Park 1 and 2, Dover and Buona Vista. For public notification, signboards are put up in the test areas to indicate that trials
are being carried out.

HOW TO RECOGNISE AN AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES ON TRIAL?
226 AVs that are approved by LTA for the purpose of trials on public roads are issued with permits and sport decals for easy
recognition by road users.

HOW TO INTERACT WITH AN AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE ON TRIAL
227 A good driver is not merely one who is skilful in handling his/her vehicle competently but more importantly is one who is safe.
In addition, a good driver must also be patient, considerate and courteous. He must have a sense of responsibility for the safety of
other road users and the ability to concentrate, anticipate and react appropriately while driving.
228 Safe driving calls for total awareness of what other road users are doing. The correct attitude towards driving will make the road
a safer and more pleasant place.
229 When you notice an AV being tested on the road, you should continue driving safely as you would normally do. You are advised
to observe these simple driving practices:
(a) Do not tailgate
(i) Tailgating, or following too closely behind another vehicle is a dangerous practice. If the front vehicle stops suddenly,
an accident is inevitable since you will not be able to stop in time.
(b) Maintain a safe following distance
(i) Drive at a steady speed and avoid unnecessary acceleration or braking.
(ii) Maintain a safe distance between your vehicle and the AV so that you will have more time to react if necessary.
(c) Overtake only if necessary
(i) Never overtake unless you can do so without endangering yourself or others. Similar to overtaking any other vehicles,
you need to check that it is safe to do so and leave a safe gap between your vehicle and the AV when overtaking.
(ii) After overtaking, return to the appropriate lane on the road as soon as it is safe to do so, but do not cut in sharply in front
of the vehicle you have just overtaken.

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

77
