PART B
CODE OF CONDUCT ON THE ROAD

General Safe Driving /
Safe Driving Technique (Defensive Driving Technique)

163 FOLLOWING DISTANCE
(a) Keep a safe following distance from the vehicle in front so as to allow yourself enough room to stop safely should the vehicle
in front stop abruptly.
(b) Do not harass the vehicle in front by tailgating it. This is a dangerous practice which could easily lead to an accident.
(c) Flashing your headlights or blasting the horn at slower moving vehicles in front of you is rude.
164 STOPPING AND PARKING
(a) Always stop or park close to the edge of the road.
(b) Always stop or park at places where you would not cause any inconvenience to other road users.
(c) Do not stop your vehicle under a shaded spot which is at a distance from a junction while waiting for the traffic signal to
change. This is a selfish act and slows down traffic at the junction.
(d) When parking your vehicle in a parking lot, be considerate by parking your vehicle parallel to and in the centre of the lot.
(e) Wait for your turn when looking for a parking lot. It is rude to jump queue or force your way into a lot when another vehicle
is trying to get into the parking lot.
165 LIGHTS
(a) Do not drive if your vehicle’s headlamps, tail-lamps and/or direction indicators are not working.
(b) Dip your headlights when following other vehicles or when facing oncoming vehicles, so as to prevent dazzling the drivers
of other vehicles.
(c) In the daytime when visibility is poor, you should turn on the headlights so that you can see and be seen more easily.
166 PEDESTRIANS (ESPECIALLY THE YOUNG AND ELDERLY), CYCLISTS AND MOTORCYCLISTS
(a) Give pedestrians (especially the young and elderly), cyclists and motorcyclists plenty of room from your vehicle as they might
change direction suddenly.
(b) Do not sound the horn when you are close to pedestrians as you might scare and cause them to react irrationally, resulting in
an accident.
(c) Do not obstruct pedestrians by stopping on the pedestrian crossing.
(d) On wet roads, slow down when you are near pedestrians and cyclists so as not to splash them with water from the road.
(e) It is not safe to pass a cyclist, be patient and wait until it is safe. This should not hold you up for long and it may save the
cyclist’s life.
(f) If a cyclist is ahead of you and you want to turn, turn behind the cyclist. Overtaking and cutting off the cyclist is very
dangerous. If and when you do need to overtake cyclists, always ensure that there is ample room from your vehicle when
overtaking (this is especially so for drivers of heavy or large vehicles), and do not merge sharply into lanes.
(g) Always check your blind spot before changing lanes, making turns or moving from a stationary position.
(h) Always check for cyclists before opening the vehicle door.
(i) Signal early to inform other road users and cyclists of the direction in which you are heading.
(j) When approaching road crossings, look out for cyclists and pedestrians.
(k) Always stop to render assistance and exchange particulars when involved in an accident.
(l) Do not expect cyclists to cycle all the way to the left next to the kerb, because their pedals may hit the kerb and there are
usually drain holes at the side where their tyres could get stuck in and cyclist could lose balance.
167 PATIENCE
(a) Always be patient. Do not rush or lose your cool on the road.
(b) It is not gracious to show any provocative gesture when other drivers do something wrong or cause inconvenience to you. No
one would deliberately get himself/herself involved in an accident.
168 TO ERR IS HUMAN; APOLOGISE AND FORGIVE
Indicate that you are sorry when you have caused inconvenience to others. This will soothe the other driver.

SAFE DRIVING TECHNIQUE (DEFENSIVE DRIVING TECHNIQUE)
169 Safe/Defensive driving technique:
Driving safely and competently demands the total involvement of most of your senses. It is not enough to gain physical mastery
of the vehicle without cultivating an awareness of the environment. A good driver can interpret, anticipate and act unhesitatingly
under adverse driving conditions.
170 Adverse conditions include:
(a) Driver conditions
(b) Weather conditions
(c) Light conditions
(d) Road conditions
(e) Traffic conditions

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

64
