PART B
CODE OF CONDUCT ON THE ROAD

Roadworthiness

ROADWORTHINESS
204 Maintain your vehicle in a roadworthy condition. You should pay attention to the following matters in regard to
maintenance, which if attended to, could prevent accidents.
(a) Tyres
Keep your tyres up to the correct pressure. Tyres that have treads less than 1.6mm in depth should be replaced. Smooth or
bald tyres will cause skids when you brake hard in an emergency, whether the road is wet or dry.
(b) Brakes
Have the brake system checked regularly, particularly hydraulic brakes, for any leakage of brake fluid may indicate that a
serious fault is developing.
(c) Steering
The steering assembly of your car should be regularly checked and kept in good condition. Check for vibration or too much
looseness in the steering mechanism or wheels that are out of alignment. A car that wanders on the road because of faulty
steering is as dangerous as a car being driven by a drunk driver.
(d) Lights
Check all your vehicle lights regularly.
(e) Direction Indicators
Keep your signalling devices in order by checking them frequently. Signal lights that do not light up when required may cause
an accident.
(f) Horn
Check your horn to make sure it is in working order.
(g) Radiator Coolant
Check the level of coolant in the radiator regularly. Most modern cars come with a coolant reservoir and the correct coolant
level should be somewhere between the ‘high’ and ‘low’ indicator markings. Checking should be done when the engine is
cool especially for cars without coolant reservoirs. Coolant in the radiator is highly pressurised when hot and releasing the
radiator cap may drench you with boiling liquid. Ensure that the engine is cool before opening the radiator cap.
(h) Engine Oil
Keep enough oil in the engine and have the oil changed periodically. Check the oil level with the help of the dip-stick.
(i) Windscreen Wipers
Make sure that your windscreen wipers are kept in good condition. Dirty windscreens and faulty wipers will hinder vision
when it rains.
(j) Battery
Keep the battery and its terminals clean. Make sure that the connections at the terminals are securely tightened. Check the
level of the battery water if your battery is not the maintenance-free type. If the water level is below the ‘low’ level, add
distilled or commercially available battery water. Refilling with tap water will shorten battery life considerably.
(k) Exhaust
All vehicles must be maintained in a condition and be driven in a manner so as to eliminate excessive emission of smoke and
noise. Smoke and noise are a nuisance and hazardous to health. Check the exhaust system regularly. If exhaust fumes leak
into the passenger compartment, especially if the car is idling with its air-conditioner on, it can be dangerous as there is a
likelihood of carbon-monoxide poisoning.

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

70
