PART A
DRIVING LICENCES
‘NEW’ DRIVERS
10 New drivers are motorists who hold a new class of driving licence for less than one year from the date of grant of licence. They
shall be under probation for one year from the date of grant of the new driving licence to them.
11 During the one year probation period, all new Class 2B, Class 3/3A and Class 3C/3CA drivers are required to display a
distinguishing mark (i.e. Probation Plate) at the front and rear of their vehicles when driving.
In the case of a Class 2B motor vehicle, the Probation Plate should be displayed:
(a) directly above or below the headlamp; and
(b) directly above or below the rear licence plate.
For a Class 3, 3A, 3C & 3CA motor vehicle which is constructed with a front and a rear windscreen, the
Probation Plate should be displayed;
(a) at the top right portion of the front windscreen; and
(b) at the top right portion of the rear windscreen, as seen from the outside of the vehicle;

Probation Plate

12 Those who fail to display the Probation Plate will be fined. Repeat offenders with at least 2 offences of failing to display the
Probation Plate during their one year probation period will have their licence revoked.
A new driver who accumulates 13 or more demerit points during the one year probation period will also have his/her new driving
licence revoked.

DRIVER IMPROVEMENT POINTS SYSTEM (DIPS)
13 Singapore’s demerit points system, named the Driver Improvement Points System (DIPS), was introduced on 1 March 1983.
14 DIPS is designed to identify and rehabilitate errant drivers through a system of rewards and punishments. Errant motorists are
thus encouraged to improve their driving behaviours on the roads with incentives to expunge their demerit points and previous
suspension record as well as remission of suspension period.
Key Features Of DIPS
Suspension Of Driving Licence
New or Probationary Motorists
15 For a new motorist who is under one year probation from the date of grant of his/her driving licence, his/her new driving licence
will be revoked and become invalid when he/she accumulates 13 or more demerit points during his/her probation period. The
licence holder will have to retake all the necessary driving tests (theory and practical) to obtain a licence to drive/ride again and
can only retake the driving tests one year after the revocation is effected.
Non-Probationary Motorists
16 For a motorist who has no previous suspension record with Traffic Police, if he/she has accumulated 24 or more demerit points
within 24 consecutive months, his/her driving licence will become liable for the 1st suspension of a period of 12 weeks.
17 For a motorist who has previous suspension records with Traffic Police, if he/she has accumulated 12 or more demerit points
within 12 consecutive months, his/her driving licence will become liable for the subsequent suspension.
18 For subsequent suspensions after the 1st suspension, the suspension periods are:
(a) 2nd suspension : 24 weeks;
(b) 3rd suspension : 1 year;
(c) 4th suspension : 2 years; and
(d) 5th suspension (onwards) : 3 years.
19 Where the suspension period lasts a year or longer (i.e. 3rd suspension onwards), the driving licence will be revoked and become
invalid. The licence holder will have to retake all the necessary driving tests (theory and practical) to obtain a licence to drive/ride
again.
20 Motorists liable for 1st and 2nd suspensions will be offered a retraining course to correct their driving behaviour. If they take and
pass the retraining course, they will be given a remission on their suspension period:
(a) For 1st suspension, the suspension period will be reduced from 12 weeks to 4 weeks. If none of their traffic offences leading
to their 1st suspension was involved in a traffic accident, their suspension period will be further reduced to 1 week; and
(b) For 2nd suspension, it will be reduced from 24 weeks to 12 weeks.
21 There is no offer of retraining course and remission for 3rd and subsequent suspensions.
22 During the suspension period, the licence holder’s photocard driving licence must be surrendered to Traffic Police. For 1st and
2nd suspensions, the licence holder’s photocard driving licence will be returned to him/her upon the expiry of the suspension
period.

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

5
