PART A
DRIVING LICENCES
Class 4
Class 5

Heavy motor cars of an unladen weight exceeding 2500 kg and
constructed to carry a load or passengers; and motor tractors of
an unladen weight between 2500 kg and 7250 kg.
Motor vehicle of an unladen weight exceeding 7250 kg and not
constructed to carry any load.

Be at least 21 years old and in possession of a
class 3 Qualified Licence.
Be at least 21 years old and in possession of a
class 4 Qualified Licence.

TEST OF COMPETENCE TO DRIVE
4

An applicant for a new class of licence must pass the test of competence to drive, which includes the theory and/or practical
driving/riding tests:
(a) Basic Theory Test (BTT)
The Basic Theory Test (BTT) is designed to test your knowledge of the traffic rules, traffic regulations, traffic signs and
signals as well as general road safety. The testing curriculum for BTT is broadly covered in the handbook titled “The Official
Handbook - Basic Theory of Driving” and all learner drivers and riders must obtain a pass for BTT before they can proceed
to take the advanced theory test i.e. the Final Theory Test (FTT) or the Riding Theory Test (RTT).
(b) Final Theory Test (FTT)
After passing the BTT, and if you want to obtain a motorcar driving licence (Class 3 or 3A), you must pass your FTT before
you can take the Practical Driving Test. The FTT aims to test your knowledge on driving safety aspects and proper techniques
of driving, as well as your interaction with other road users whilst driving on the roads. After you have passed your FTT, you
are required to pass the Practical Driving Test within two years, failing which, you will have to retake and pass your FTT
again before you can apply for another Practical Driving Test. The testing curriculum for FTT is broadly covered in the
handbook titled “The Official Handbook - Final Theory of Driving”.
(c) Riding Theory Test (RTT)
After passing the BTT, and if you want to obtain a motorcycle driving licence (Class 2B), you must pass your RTT before
you can take the Practical Riding Test. The RTT aims to test your knowledge on riding safety aspects and proper techniques
of riding, as well as your interaction with other road users whilst riding on the roads. After you have passed your RTT, you
are required to pass the Practical Riding Test within one year, failing which, you have to retake and pass your RTT again
before you can apply for another Practical Riding Test.
(d) Practical Driving / Riding Test
The Practical Driving / Riding Test will be conducted by a Driving Examiner appointed by the Traffic Police. You must
provide a motor vehicle which is suitable for the test, in good mechanical condition and properly insured against third-party
risks.

5

In order to book and take a theory or practical driving / riding test, an applicant must fulfil the following eligibility requirements
at the date of booking or date of taking his/her test:
(a) He/She has not accumulated more than 12 demerit points;
(b) He/She is not under suspension or Court disqualification or is not within the period of one year from the date of revocation
of his/her driving licence;
(c) He/She is not under police investigation; and
(d) He/She has not committed 2 or more offences of failing to display a distinguishing mark (i.e. Probation Plate) during his/her
period of probation as a new driver for his/her other new class of driving licence.

PROVISIONAL DRIVING LICENCE (PDL)
6

After passing your BTT, you may apply for a Provisional Driving Licence (PDL) to start learning to drive or ride on the roads
with your driving instructor. A PDL is valid for 2 years from the date of grant and can be renewed subsequently for every 2 years.

7

As a PDL holder, you must display two 18 cm square ‘L’ plates, in a conspicuous position on both the front and back of your
motor vehicle during your driving lessons and driving tests, as well as be insured against third-party risk, during your driving tests
and driving lessons. You can only drive whilst under the supervision of your licensed driving instructor or driving school’s driving
instructor.

8

To apply for a PDL, an applicant must fulfil the following eligibility requirements at the date of the application:
(a) He/She has not accumulated more than 12 demerit points;
(b) He/She has passed his/her BTT;
(c) He/She must be able to read at a distance of 25 metres (with the aid of glasses, if worn) a series of 6 letters and figures in
white on a black background of the same size and arrangement as those prescribed for the identification mark of a motor
vehicle; and
(d) He/She must be able to distinguish the colours red, amber and green from a distance of 25 metres.

VALIDITY OF DRIVING LICENCE
9

If you are a Singapore Citizen or a Permanent Resident, your driving licence will be valid for your lifetime. However, if you are
a foreigner and a holder of a work pass granted by the Ministry of Manpower (for example: Employment Pass, S-Pass, Work
Permit, Dependent Pass issued with restriction as to his/her period of stay in Singapore), your driving licence will be valid for a
period up to 5 years.

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

4
