PART C
ECO-DRIVING: WAYS TO SAVE FUEL AND SAVE THE ENVIRONMENT
INTRODUCTION
261 How you drive and treat your vehicle can have a significant impact on fuel consumption and emissions. Practicing eco-driving
can reduce fuel consumption by up to 10% on average over time1. By observing just a few simple eco-driving steps, you can
reduce fuel use and at the same time reduce vehicular emissions. This lets you play a part in saving the environment while
saving money!

What is Eco-Driving?
262 Eco-driving generally refers to the practice of handling one’s vehicle in a manner that promotes fuel economy and reduces
emissions. These include vehicle maintenance, on-road driver behaviour, and route selection.

How to ADOPT Eco-DRIVING
263 Eco-driving is not difficult. You can lower your vehicle’s fuel consumption and impact on the environment by observing these
simple driving practices:
(a) Don’t Leave Your Vehicle Engine idling
(i)
Turn off the engine when your vehicle is stationary for reasons other than traffic conditions. Idling engines waste fuel,
generate unnecessary pollution to the environment, and cause fumes and noise nuisance to the public.
Note: Under the Environmental Protection and Management
(Vehicular Emissions) Regulations, it is an offence to leave the
vehicle engine running when it is stationary for reasons other than
traffic conditions. Offenders are liable to a fine of up to $5,000, if
convicted in court.

Do not idle your vehicle’s engine
(ii)

There is no need to warm up the engine before driving off. Modern engines reach their optimal temperature faster when
the vehicle is driven at moderate speeds upon starting.

Turn off the engine when your vehicle is stationary
(b) Maintain Your Vehicle Regularly
(i)
Service your vehicle regularly. A well maintained vehicle is more fuel efficient and emits less pollution on the road.
(ii)
Check your vehicle’s tyre pressure at least once a month. Correctly inflated tyres help reduce drag, improve fuel
economy and reduce pollution. So make sure your tyres are at their recommended pressure.
(iii)
Avoid over-loading your vehicle. Carrying excess weight in a vehicle increases fuel consumption and emissions. Heavy
or large items, e.g. heavy tool kits, etc., should be removed from your vehicle when not required.

Ensure that your vehicle’s tyres are correctly inflated

Carry only what is necessary; avoid unnecessary weight

1

Kojima, K., & Ryan, L. (2010). Transport Energy Efficiency: Implementation of IEA Recommendations since 2009 and next steps
(No. 2010/9). OECD Publishing.

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

85
