PART B
CODE OF CONDUCT ON THE ROAD

General Safe Driving

155 HOW TO REACT TO ANIMALS CROSSING THE ROAD
(a) Slow down when driving next to nature areas, and where wildlife crossings are indicated.
(b) Be alert and slow down if you see any animals crossing the road ahead of you.
(c) Be extra cautious at dawn and dusk as this is the peak period for animal movements.
(d) Scan the road shoulders ahead of you. Look for reflecting eyes or animals walking along the side of the road.
(e) Even though animals may be walking along the side of the road as your vehicle approaches, they may panic and attempt to
flee by crossing the road. Slow down as you approach.
(f) If collision with the animal is unavoidable, apply the brakes firmly and remain in your lane.
(g) If you have a collision with an animal and it is causing an obstruction to other road users; you are required to stop your
vehicle, turn on your hazard light and notify the Traffic Police at 999.
(h) Refrain from touching or moving the injured animal unless you are confident to do so; as it may still be able to defend
itself. In the event you are able to move the animal place it at the road shoulder or grass verge ensuring it does not cause any
further obstruction to road users. Update Traffic Police at 999 once you have successfully moved the animal.
156 DRIVING ALONG
(a) Adjust your speed to the speed of the traffic around you so as not to slow down traffic behind you (road hogging). Even when
you are driving on the left hand side of the roadway, do not drive slowly at below 15km/h of the stipulated speed limits of the
road.
(b) It is courteous to give the right-of-way to others when circumstances permit.
(c) When right-of-way is given to you, it is gracious to show a ‘thank you’ hand gesture.
(d) When driving in countries with left-hand drive vehicles, do familiarise yourself with the traffic rules and regulations by
reading up on the Highway Code of that country. New drivers are to gradually familiarise themselves with the road conditions
in countries with Left Hand Drive if they plan to drive in those countries.
157 SIGNALLING
(a) Give appropriate signals early to allow others to act on them in time.
(b) Cancel your signals when they are not in use so as not to confuse others.
158 USE OF HORN
(a) Sound the horn only to warn other road users of dangers such as a likely collision.
(b) Do not use the horn to express anger or frustration.
(c) Do not use the horn to demand the right-of-way or bull doze your way through crowded places.
(d) Sounding your horn when driving is unnecessary, except as a warning. In some areas e.g. near a school or hospital, it is an
offence to use the horn, except to avoid an accident.
159 LANE DISCIPLINE
(a) Keep to the left of the road and leave the other lanes for other faster moving vehicles to pass safely.
(b) Keep within your lane. It is inconsiderate to straddle lanes as this would obstruct other vehicles and may lead to traffic being
held up.
(c) Do not weave in and out of traffic lanes as it would cause confusion and danger to others.
(d) Cutting into the path of other vehicles is discourteous/inconsiderate and likely to cause an accident and road rage.
160 AT ROAD JUNCTIONS
(a) Move into the correct lane early at road junctions to let others know your intended direction of travel.
(b) When making right turns, position your vehicle properly so that it does not hinder oncoming vehicles.
161 IN TRAFFIC QUEUES
(a) Stay in queue during traffic hold-ups. Do not jump queue. Jumping queue is discourteous/inconsiderate and would aggravate
the traffic jam.
(b) Leave a gap at the junction to a side road to enable vehicles from the opposite direction to turn right as well as for vehicles
from the side road to move out.
162 OVERTAKING
(a) Overtake only when it is absolutely necessary.
(b) Overtake only when you are sure that there are no other vehicles attempting to pass or overtake you.
(c) Slow down and keep left when being overtaken to allow the overtaking vehicle to pass quickly.
(d) Accelerating when others are trying to overtake you is unsafe and discourteous.
(e) Cutting into the path of another vehicle after overtaking it is discourteous and likely to anger the driver and cause an accident.

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

63
