PART B
CODE OF CONDUCT ON THE ROAD

Moving Off / Mirrors And Signals /
Driving Along / Tailgating / Safe Following Distance

MOVING OFF
127 Before you move off, fasten your seat belt and look in the mirrors. Give the proper signal, look around to check on traffic and
pedestrians. Move off only when you can do so safely and without causing inconvenience to other road users. Give way to passing
and overtaking vehicles.

MIRRORS AND SIGNALS
128 Mirrors should be checked before moving off, slowing down, stopping, changing lane, overtaking and making any turn. You
should also cultivate the habit of checking the mirrors every 5 to 10 seconds while driving along.
129 The areas on the right and left of your vehicle which cannot be viewed in your mirrors are known as “blind spots”. You have to
turn your head and look over your shoulder to the left or the right to check for traffic in the “blind spots” before changing lane,
overtaking, turning and stopping.
130 Always give clear signals well in advance of your intentions (at least 3 seconds) before your manoeuvre so that other road users
can interact safely.

DRIVING ALONG
131 Constantly adjust your speed to the conditions of the road on which you are travelling. Such adjustment will enable you to stop
in any emergency without skidding or losing control of your vehicle.
132 A good driver automatically reduces speed when:
(a) Entering a built-up area.
(b) Approaching a school or a stationary bus with children alighting from or boarding it.
(c) Travelling on narrow winding roads.
(d) Approaching children who are playing.
(e) Approaching a bend, brow of a hill, or other obstruction that limits his/her view.
(f) The road surface is wet.

TAILGATING
133 Tailgating, or following too closely behind another vehicle is a dangerous practice. If the vehicle in front stops suddenly, an
accident is inevitable since you will not be able to stop in time. Tailgating also makes the driver in front nervous and can cause
him/her to be involved in an accident.

SAFE FOLLOWING DISTANCE
134 To be able to stop with an appropriate space between your vehicle and the vehicle in front, you must allow at least one car length
for every 16km/h of your speed.

48km/h

64km/h

80km/h

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

60
