PART C
KEY POINTS OF THE MOTOR CLAIMS FRAMEWORK (MCF)
272 In the case of an Accident, you should avoid all unauthorised tow-truck operators or repair workshops.
Steps to take:
273 (a) Exchange particulars of involved parties (including Name, NRIC/FIN, Telephone Number, Address and Insurer);
(b) Take note of the Vehicle Numbers;
(c) Take pictures at the accident scene and submit all pictures at your authorised accident reporting centre during reporting;
Things to Photograph:
(i) The Scene (Take pictures of the accident scene capturing the accident vehicles and surrounding areas);
(ii) Own Vehicle (Take pictures of the damage to your own vehicle, capturing your licence plate);
(iii) Other Damaged Vehicles (Take pictures of damage to all other vehicles involved in the accident, capturing their license
plates. For multiple vehicle collision, take pictures of the vehicles with direct contact, e.g. vehicles in the immediate
front and immediate rear.)
274 Call your insurer’s hotline for a tow truck or for further advice on the accident.
275 Report and bring your accident vehicle (whether damaged or not) to the approved reporting centre / authorised workshop within
24 hours or by the next working day.
The benefits of reporting:
276 By reporting the accident within the stipulated time, you not only enjoy hassle-free and quality-certified repair services as provided
under the MCF, you will also avoid potentially higher costs from exaggerated claims.
(a) Remember that all accidents must be reported to your insurer within 24 hours or by the next working day with your accident
vehicle. Report the accident no matter how trivial or even if there is no visible damage, and irrespective of whether you are
claiming from any insurers or third parties.
(b) Should you fail to report the accident to your insurer with your accident vehicle, you may find yourself in a position of
having your claims prejudiced or declined later by insurers. Failure to comply with this new policy condition will be seen as
being “In breach” of the policy terms and conditions, i.e. there will be no liability on the part of the insurer. In addition, any
non-compliance with this policy condition will result in a loss of your ‘No Claims Discount’ upon renewal of your policy.

Published online by Traffic Police

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

88
