PART C
EMERGENCY/INCIDENT PROCEDURES (TUNNELS)
251 Radio break-in is an important tool for the OCC to communicate with motorists in the tunnel during an emergency and as a good
driving habit, motorists are encouraged to tune into an FM radio channel before entering the tunnel.
Fire Protection
252 Portable fire extinguishers are also provided in the emergency cabinet which is available at
50m intervals along the tunnel. Motorists can make use of the fire extinguishers to put out
any small scale fire in their vehicles.
253 MCE and Woodsville tunnels are equipped with a water-based firefighting system. This is an
overhead water sprinkler system that helps suppress fire growth rates to further protect major
structural tunnel elements and minimise the potential impact of a fire.
254 Coupled with the ventilation system present in all our road tunnels, the water-based
firefighting system enhances the overall incident management process in the event of fire

EMERGENCY/INCIDENT PROCEDURES
255 For Motorist Whose Vehicle Is Broken Down
(a) Switch on vehicle hazard lights.
(b) When possible, drive onto the road shoulder and stop the vehicle.
(c) The motorist can use the nearest emergency (SOS) phone (located next to the slow lane of tunnel) to contact the OCC for
assistance. Alternatively, the motorist can dial 1800-CALL LTA (1800-2255582) for assistance.
(d) LTA EMAS vehicle recovery service crew will arrive at the incident site to tow the stalled vehicle to the nearest designated
car park.
256 For Motorist Who Meets With An Accident
(a) If there is neither injury nor serious damage caused to the accident vehicles, motorists involved in the accident are advised to
drive out of the tunnel (especially for accidents which occur in the tunnel) and discuss all details pertaining to the accident at
a safe location e.g. public car park.
(b) If there is injury, or if an accident vehicle cannot be moved, motorists can use the nearest emergency (SOS) phone (if the
accident occurs in the tunnel) to contact the OCC for assistance. Alternatively, motorists can dial 1800-CALL LTA (18002255582) or 995/ 999 for assistance.
(c) LTA EMAS and SCDF/Traffic Police response teams will arrive at the incident site to assist the motorists.
257 For Motorist Whose Vehicle Is On Fire
(a) Use the manual call point to sound an alarm and wait for help.
(b) Use the portable fire extinguisher inside the emergency cabinet to attempt to extinguish the smoke if the situation appears
manageable.
(c) Dial 1800-CALL LTA (1800-2255582) or use the nearest emergency (SOS) phone to contact the OCC for assistance.
Alternatively, the motorist could contact the OCC immediately.
(d) LTA and SCDF/Traffic Police response teams will arrive at the incident site to assist the motorist.
258 For Motorist Who Encounters A Tunnel Emergency Eg. Fire in Tunnel
If you are in the tunnel:
(a) Listen to any of the local radio channels for LTA emergency announcements and instructions.
(b) Look out for the lane use signs.
(c) If you cannot proceed, do not attempt to reverse your vehicle; turn off your engine and leave your vehicle. Proceed to the
nearest exit or escape route to leave the tunnel immediately.
(d) Do not be alarmed if the overhead water sprinkler system (water-based firefighting system) is activated (MCE and Woodsville
Tunnel only).

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

83
