PART B
CODE OF CONDUCT ON THE ROAD

Safe Driving Technique (Defensive Driving Technique) /
Stopping And Moving Off At Traffic Light Junctions

199 TRAFFIC CONDITIONS
Traffic conditions vary depending on time, place and situation. Traffic may be congested or relatively light. The speed of other
vehicles also varies. Try to drive with the traffic in order not to disrupt its flow.
200 Adjust your speed to the traffic and road situation. Situations change as you travel from urban built-up areas to sub-urban and
then to rural areas.

URBAN

SUB-URBAN

RURAL

201 In urban areas, traffic is slow and heavy. Traffic is faster and lighter in suburban areas. In rural areas, traffic is generally light.
Whatever the traffic conditions, the driver has the responsibility to be careful and alert at all times.
202 DRIVING OVERSEAS
Most countries in Europe adopt a left hand drive system, ie. you’ll find the steering wheel on the other side of the car.
For more information on overseas driving tips, please refer to the Automobile Association of Singapore’s website. Being prepared
will allow you to drive more confidently.

STOPPING AND MOVING OFF AT TRAFFIC LIGHT JUNCTIONS
203 (a) WHEN STOPPING

DO’s

DON’Ts

1. Stop before and close to the stop-line.
2. Leave a safety gap of 2 metres between your vehicle and
the vehicle in front.
3. Apply the handbrake after stopping.
4. Be alert to the traffic around you while waiting for the
lights to change.
5. Position your vehicle in the centre of the lane.

1. Stop beyond or too far from the stopline.
2. Stop less than 2 metres behind the vehicle in front.
3. While waiting for the lights to change,
a. read newspapers, magazines, etc.
b. sip drinks,
c. adjust the car audio system,
d. use the car-phone,
e. rev the engine.
4. ‘Inch’ forward while waiting for the lights to change.
5. Stop under shades which are far from the junction.
6. Allow passengers to alight or board your vehicle.
7. Stop suddenly.

(b) WHEN MOVING OFF

DO’s

DON’Ts

1. Move only when the lights turn ‘green’.
2. Look to the right and left for approaching vehicles before
moving.
3. Look out for pedestrians crossing the road in front of you.
4. Wait 2 secs after the vehicle in front has moved off,
before proceeding.
5. Proceed only in the direction indicated on the lane.
6. Give way to vehicles beating the lights.

1. Move off before the lights change even though there
are no approaching vehicles.
2. Accelerate harshly.
3. Move before it is safe to proceed.
4. Change your direction of travel.
5. Overtake slow moving vehicles in front of you.
6. Weave past pedestrians crossing the road.

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

69
