PART B
DRIVING IN SPECIAL ZONES

School Zone / Silver Zone

SCHOOL ZONE SAFETY
213 Children are vulnerable road users with limited experience using the roads, thus it is of paramount importance to keep school
zones safe.

ROAD SAFETY MEASURES
214 Several road engineering measures have been installed in school zones to enhance safety. These include:
(a) Prominent school zone signs that remind motorists to drive carefully
(b) Traffic calming measures such as road humps
(c) Pedestrian crossings
(d) Parking restriction lines
(e) Railings along the road centre to deter jaywalking
(f) Parts of the road surface near the school gate are covered with a red texture to catch drivers’ attention and alert them to drive
carefully and to look out for children crossing the road.

DRIVING IN SCHOOL ZONES
215 (a) Slow down and drive very carefully when you are in a school zone.
(b) Be extra vigilant in watching out for children crossing the road as they may be easily blocked from your view due to their
height.
(c) Be patient when you encounter heavy traffic at school zones during school peak hours. If you are rushing for time, please take
other routes if you can.
(d) If you drive your child to school, let him/her alight at safe and proper drop-off points.

SILVER ZONE SAFETY
216 Silver zones are designated areas with enhanced road safety engineering measures such as new signs, road features and markings
to change the character of the street, making it safe and more convenient for senior pedestrians to cross the road.
217 Silver zones are found in selected housing estates with high senior populations, relatively higher accident rates involving senior
and proximity to places where seniors frequent.

ROAD SAFETY MEASURES
218 Several road safety engineering measures have been installed in silver zones to enhance road safety for all road users, senior
pedestrians in particular. These includes:
(a) Silver zone gateway treatment which includes signs and road markings to indicate the start of a silver zone.

(b) Setback crossings to provide reduced crossing distance for pedestrians.
(c) 2-stage crossings so that pedestrians can rest momentarily at the pedestrian refuge (centre divider) before continuing to cross
the road
(d) Centre divider to narrow lanes and reduce vehicles’ travel speeds.
(e) Traffic calming measures such as chicanes and eye-lands (horizontal curves constructed along existing straight stretches of
roads), pinch points (narrowed lanes to slow motorists down) and bus-friendly humps.
(f) Silver zone bollards at crossings to highlight the crossing points.

DRIVING IN SILVER ZONES
219 (a) Drive slow and carefully within silver zones, especially when approaching crossings.
(b) Be extra vigilant in watching out for all pedestrians, especially senior pedestrians crossing the road.
(c) Be patient when you encounter senior pedestrians crossing within silver zones as they may require a longer crossing time.

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

75
