PART B
ELECTRIC MOTORCYCLE (EM)
INTRODUCTION
230 Electric powered motorcycles and scooters are plug-in-electric vehicles with two or three wheels. The electricity is stored on
board in a rechargeable battery, which drives one or more electric motors.
231 Electric powered motorcycles and scooters are generally of the same size and weight and are comparable in performance with
petrol driven motorcycles.

FEATURES OF ELECTRIC MOTORCYCLES
232 The features of the electric motorcycles are similar to the petrol engine motorcycles. They generally have the same operating
function such as brakes, mirrors, lights and etc.
233 The only difference is that electric motorcycle runs on automatic transmission gear without having the clutch which is used for
manual transmission motorcycles. Similarly, some petrol engine motorcycles and scooters presently runs on automatic
transmission.
234 Electric motorcycles have better acceleration as they develop higher torque. Generally electric motorcycles weigh lighter and
have a low engine noise.

CLASSES OF DRIVING LICENCES
235 The following table is the categorisation of electric motorcycles with existing Class 2B, 2A and 2 categories under the law.
Licence Class

Categorisation for Petrol
Motorcycles

Categorisation for Electric
Motorcycles

Existing
Driving
Requirements

Licensing

Class 2B

Below 200cc.

Below 15kW.

Pass the Basic Theory Test, Riding
Theory Test and Class 2B practical
driving test.

Class 2A

Between 200cc and 400cc.

Between 15kW to 25 kW.

Possess a valid Class 2B licence for
at least one year, and pass the
Class 2A practical driving test.

Class 2

Above 400cc.

Above 25kW.

Possess a valid Class 2A licence for
at least one year, and pass the
Class 2 practical driving test.

ADAPTING TO ELECTRIC MOTORCYCLE
236 Although the electric motorcycle features and operations are quite similar to petrol engine motorcycles, riders should accustom
themselves with the electric motorcycle faster acceleration. The general road safety rules should be when riding the electric
motorcycle.

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

78
