PART B
TRAFFIC RULES & REGULATIONS

The “Give Way Rule” At Road Junctions / Roundabouts

82 At a junction, look right, then left, then right again. Do not proceed until you are sure that it is safe to do so. Do not rely on signals
to go ahead given by unauthorised persons.
83 Well before you turn right at a junction, take full account of the position and movement of traffic behind you. When it is safe to
do so, signal your intention and take up a position just left of the middle of a two-way street or to the extreme right lane of a oneway street. Wait there until there is a safe distance between you and any approaching vehicle before you complete your turn.
84 When turning right into a two-way street, turn into the lane just left of the centre line of the road you are turning into.
85 When turning right into a one-way street, turn into the extreme right lane of the road you are turning into.
86 If you intend to turn left, keep to the left, signal in good time, and do not swing out to the right before or after making the turn.
87 When a vehicle turns, the rear nearside wheel tends to pull closer to the kerb. So when making a turn, take special care not to
brush against pedestrians, bicycles or motorcycles.

Notice the wide difference between
the arcs that the front and rear
nearside wheels take when making
a turn.

ROUNDABOUTS
88 Slow down when approaching a roundabout and give way to traffic on your right.
89 The general rule is that:
(a) traffic from lane A as in the illustration goes to ‘A’.
(b) traffic from lane B goes to ‘B’.
(c) traffic from lane C goes to ‘C’.

REMEMBER - Traffic coming from your right takes priority over you.
Rules for Motorists
You must always give way to traffic approaching from your right. You are advised to exercise caution at all times, and decide as
early as possible which exit you need to take. Take note of and act on all the information available to you from traffic signs, traffic
lights and road markings that direct you into the correct lane. Always remember that you have to:(a) Give clear signals showing your intention in good time;
(b) Obey the right-hand rule;
(c) Not inconvenience other drivers;
(d) Use your mirror intelligently to see that you do not obstruct the path of vehicles behind you; and
(e) Show consideration to other road users in the interest of road safety.

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

53
