PART B
CODE OF CONDUCT ON THE ROAD

Reversing / Safety of Pedestrians And Cyclists/
Emergency Vehicles / General Safe Driving

REVERSING
139 Before you reverse, make sure that there are no children or other pedestrians or obstructions in the blind areas behind you.
140 Do not reverse from a side road/minor road into a main road.
141 If your view to the rear is restricted, get help when reversing.

SAFETY OF PEDESTRIANS AND CYCLISTS
142 Pedestrians have the right-of-way at Pedestrian Crossings.
143 When approaching a pedestrian crossing, slow down and do not overtake other vehicles.
144 When approaching a pedestrian crossing, ALWAYS –
(a) be ready to slow down or stop so as to give way to pedestrians;
(b) signal to other drivers your intention to slow down or stop;
(c) allow yourself more time to stop when the road is wet.
145 At a pedestrian crossing controlled by traffic signals or by a policeman, give way to pedestrians who are still crossing even when
the signal allows vehicles to move.
146 Stop, when signalled to do so by a school patrol warden showing a “STOP-Children” sign.
147 Watch for pedestrians who come out suddenly from behind stationary vehicles and other obstructions. Be very careful near schools
and bus stops.
148 Pedestrians using rural roads tend to be less “road-wise”. Watch out for them.
149 When you are passing a pedestrian or cyclist, always maintain as wide a distance from him/her as possible and drive slowly.
150 When driving across a muddy section of the road or through a puddle, you should slow down to avoid splashing muddy water
onto pedestrians.

EMERGENCY VEHICLES
151 Ambulances ferry the sick and injured to hospitals. Fire Engines help put out fires, and Police Vehicles carry police personnel
whose presence is much needed in an emergency. Obstructing the passage of any such vehicle could mean the difference between
life and death for someone, somewhere. If you encounter any of them on the road with sirens and/or seeing the flashing beacon
lights, give way by pulling in to the left or right side of the road depending on the circumstances.
DO
(a) Pull to the nearest edge of the roadway and come to a complete stop if necessary, until all emergency vehicles have passed.
(b) Be alert to the approach of an emergency vehicle.
(c) Switch on your direction signal when pulling off the road. This sends a message to the emergency vehicle operator that the
driver is aware of his/her presence.
DO NOT
(a) Block any intersection (even when attempting to give way to an emergency vehicle), as it is dangerous.
(b) Follow closely behind an emergency vehicle responding to an emergency.
(c) Stop on a bridge, curve or crest of a hill; instead, switch on your directional signal and proceed forward until you can safely
pull over and come to a complete stop.
(d) Slam on your brakes or stop directly in front of an emergency vehicle.

GENERAL SAFE DRIVING
152 When you are driving, keep your attention on the road ahead, except for necessary and frequent glances at the rear view mirror,
wing mirrors and panel of the car. Do not turn your head to talk to your passengers or to light a cigarette. Children should not be
allowed to obstruct or distract the driver and parents should train them not to do so.
153 Be careful when driving on steel plates laid on unfinished roadworks because these are extremely slippery, especially when they
are wet.
154 Avoid driving through floods as there is a danger that brake malfunction may subsequently occur. If unavoidable, pump the brake
pedal repeatedly after emerging from flood waters so as to dry the brakes.

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

62
