PART B
TRAFFIC RULES & REGULATIONS

Lights / Alcohol /
Light Goods Vehicles / Height Limits

108 In the daytime whenever visibility is poor or if it is raining, switch on your headlights. This is to enable other road users to see
your vehicle. Switching on your headlights will not in any way affect your fuel consumption.
109 It is advisable when parking in unlit or poorly lit roads at night to leave your side or parking lights on.
110 Try not to look directly at the headlights of oncoming vehicles but direct your vision slightly to the left. This technique can save
you from momentary blindness.
111 Always keep a look-out for flashes from the brake lights of vehicles in front.
112 When approaching a curve or intersection with poor visibility, it is a good idea to flash your headlights to let pedestrians and
oncoming cyclists and motorists know that you are heading into the curve or intersection.
113 It is unsafe to drive with the interior lights on as they reduce your external visibility. Motorcyclists are required to switch on their
headlights throughout the day.

ALCOHOL
114 Alcohol, when even a small quantity has been consumed, makes you less safe on the roads. The safe rule is IF YOU DRINK,
DON’T DRIVE. The same applies to drugs even when taken medicinally.
115 The prescribed legal limit for blood alcohol content is 80 milligrammes (mg) of alcohol per 100 millilitres (ml) of blood while
that for breath is 35 microgrammes (ug) of alcohol per 100 millilitres (ml) of breath. Any person caught driving with blood or
breath alcohol content which exceeds the prescribed limit will be charged in court for drink driving. A person can also be charged
for drink driving even when the blood or breath alcohol content is below the legal limit if there is evidence to show that he/she
was unable to control the vehicle because of alcoholic intoxication. The penalty for drink driving is a fine of between $1,000 and
$5,000 or imprisonment not exceeding 6 months. There is also a mandatory 1-year disqualification in respect of the offender’s
driving licence. A repeat offender will face a mandatory jail sentence not exceeding 1 year.

LIGHT GOODS VEHICLES
116 All lorries used for carrying workers on the carriage deck must be fitted with canopies and higher side railings.
117 The load on any vehicle on a road should always be securely fastened.
118 The front passenger seat(s) in the lorry’s cabin must be occupied before workers can be carried on the rear carriage deck.
119 Lorry owners who wish to use their lorries to carry their workers must display a Maximum Passenger Capacity (MPC) label on
the right side of the lorry’s rear tailboard indicating the maximum number of workers that can be transported when the carriage
deck is empty.
120 For safety, when workers are carried in lorries, they should be made to sit down properly and the maximum allowable height of
a seated worker shall not be more than 1.1 metres measured from the carriage deck.
121 The vehicle must not carry an excess number of workers based on the minimum deck space requirement of 0.372 square metres
(or 4 square feet) per seated worker. If goods or equipment are also transported, the number of workers that may be carried is to
be reduced according to the remaining floor area available.
122 When transporting workers on the carriage deck, the vehicle must not travel faster than the posted road speed limit or the vehicle
speed limit of 60 km/h, whichever is lower.

HEIGHT LIMITS
123 Anyone who drives a vehicle with overall height exceeding 4.5m without police escort is committing an offence.
Avoid collision with an overhead structure in 4 steps
(a) Ensure vehicle height is less than 4.5m. Apply for a police escort if vehicle height exceeds 4.5m.
(b) Plan your route before driving off.
(c) Obey speed and height limits.
(d) Stop and seek alternative route if you:
(i) are diverted from your original route
(ii) are lost
(iii) realise that your route is obstructed by a road structure lower than your vehicle’s height during your journey.

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

58
