PART C
SECURITY MEASURES TO PREVENT THEFT OF/FROM MOTOR VEHICLES
INTRODUCTION
264 Motor vehicle theft (MVT) and theft from vehicle (TFV) are two of the Police’s key crime concerns. The majority of these cases
take place in carparks located in public housing estates.
265 Similar to past trends, theft of motorcycles continue to form the majority (about two-thirds) of all theft of motor-vehicles reported
to the police. Joyrides and transportation for personal uses continue to be common motives for stealing such vehicles. However,
some stolen vehicles are never recovered.
266 Likewise, for theft from vehicles, common items stolen, especially from cars, are laptops, handbags, cash cards and handphones.
The culprit(s) usually smash the window or windscreen of the car in the dead of the night to gain access to the valuables left
behind by the owner.
267 Therefore, it is every vehicle owner’s responsibility to ensure the security of their vehicle and valuables kept within, in order to
prevent such thefts from occurring. Future vehicle owners such as yourself, are encouraged to enhance the security of vehicles by
taking adequate crime prevention measures.
268 The inconveniences and monetary loses caused to vehicle owners by such thefts are significant. You can prevent such unfortunate
incidents by adopting the following simple measures:

MOTORCYCLES
269 (a) Remove the ignition keys and handle lock your motorcycle, even if you are leaving for a short while. It takes only a short
time for thieves to strike;
(b) Locking devices such as front wheel safety lock, handlebar lock, brake/disc lock and cable lock can be used to enhance the
security of your motorcycle;
(c) Use a motorcycle canvas to cover the vehicle, securing both ends with locks;
(d) Consider fitting additional safety devices such as an alarm system and immobilizer for your motorcycle;
(e) To prevent the motorcycle parts from being stolen, you may consider labelling security markings (e.g. the vehicle registration
number) on major parts of the motorcycle or installing a device known as a suspension guard to prevent easy removal of the
motorcycle’s suspension;
(f) Remove your cashcard from the IU when you leave your motorcycle.

CARS
270 (a) Remove the ignition key, wind up all the windows and lock all the doors whenever it is left unattended, even for a short while;
(b) Do not leave valuables such as cash cards, briefcases, handbags, laptops or handphones exposed in your vehicle. If need be,
such items should be kept out of sight or locked in the car boot;
(c) Consider fitting additional safety devices such as an anti-theft alarm system or an immobilizer on your vehicle. An anti-theft
alarm should be regularly checked/serviced to ensure its effectiveness;
(d) Use an additional lock such as steering wheel lock, clutch & brake locks, gear lock, etc.;
(e) Keep a record of the serial numbers of valuable items such as laptops, handphones (IMEI no.) and/or cash cards. These will
help the police in investigations.

GENERAL
271 (a) Be wary of suspicious characters loitering around the carparks. If you see any person loitering around suspiciously, do not
hesitate to contact the Police at ‘999’;
(b) Whenever possible, park your vehicle in a well-lit area. Avoid parking at dark or secluded areas;
(c) Form a good habit of securing your vehicle. Always remember, “Lock, Look and Leave”:
(i) Lock your vehicle and ensure that all valuables are kept out of sight,
(ii) Look around your car when parking. Whenever
possible, park your vehicle in a well-lit area or prominent location where human traffic volume is high,
(iii) Leave your car secured and with peace of mind;
(d) Crime prevention is a shared responsibility. Crime can be prevented if owners and members of the public adopt measures to
stay vigilant against criminal acts. Together, we can help make Singapore a safer home for all.

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

87
