PART B
TRAFFIC RULES & REGULATIONS

U-Turns / Stopping And Parking

U-TURNS
94 Do not make a U-turn at any road
intersection, junction or any opening in a
road divider except where a U-turn sign is
located.
95 Always negotiate a U-turn carefully,
especially if roadside trees or hedges are
obstructing your view of oncoming traffic.
As you turn, be alert for any vehicles,
especially motorcycles, which may be
turning together with you on your right.

STOPPING AND PARKING
96 Do not park or let your vehicle wait:
(a) At a bend, the brow of a hill or a bridge.
(b) On a footway or cycle track.
(c) Near traffic lights or pedestrian
crossings.
(d) On a main road or on a road carrying fast
moving traffic.
(e) Opposite or nearly opposite another
stationary vehicle across the road, or
other obstructions (eg. road repairs).
(f) Abreast of another vehicle.
(g) Within 6 metres (20 feet) of an intersection or junction of any road or street (as shown in the diagram below).
(h) Within 9 metres (30 feet) of a bus stop (from the edge of a yellow demarcated box or from the tip of a bus bay except when
the vehicle breaks down owing to a defect in the vehicle or its tyres).
(i) Within 3 meters (10 feet) on either side of fire hydrant.
(j) Where it will obstruct any entrance.
(k) Facing oncoming traffic.
(l) Along any slip road.
(m) On a flyover, underpass or ramp leading to a
flyover or underpass.
(n) On a grass verge or on a road shoulder.
(o) In any bus lane.
(p) In any designated taxi stop (except taxis).
(q) In any taxi stand (except taxis).
(r) In any bus terminus (except omnibuses).
(s) Within “No Waiting” zone
(t) Within “No Stopping” zone
(Note: Parking means to bring the vehicle to a stationary position and cause it to wait other than for the immediate picking up or
letting down of passengers.)
97 Before opening a door of a vehicle, make sure that it will not endanger or inconvenience anybody on the road or foot-path. Get
out on the side nearest to the kerb whenever it is possible.
98 When you have to stop, pull in as close as possible to the edge of the road.
99 Whenever you park, remember to:
(a) Turn off the engine and engage the hand-brake.
(b) Put your car into reverse gear if facing downhill and into low gear if facing uphill.
(c) Remove the ignition key.
(d) Lock the steering mechanism or activate the burglar alarm if your car is fitted with one.
(e) Wind up the windows and lock the doors.
(f) Keep your valuables in the boot or in a place where they cannot be seen.
100 Remember that you are not allowed to leave any broken-down or wrecked vehicle on any public road. If your vehicle breaks down
on the road, push it into a break-down bay or as close to the side of the road as possible. Switch on the hazard warning lights even
during daylight and place a reflective warning triangle at least 20 metres behind the vehicle. Arrange for it to be towed away
immediately so as not to cause obstruction to the flow of traffic.

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

56
