PART B
CODE OF CONDUCT ON THE ROAD

Safe Driving Technique (Defensive Driving Technique)

171 DRIVER CONDITIONS
Your physical and mental condition can affect your driving. These conditions are:
(a) Your vision,
(b) Your physical health,
(c) Your mental state,
(d) Consumption of alcohol and drugs.
172 Eighty percent (80%) of information perceived while driving comes through the driver’s eyes. It is therefore important that you
make optimal use of your eyes when driving. Do not fix your eyes on a particular object for longer than necessary. Keep moving
your eyes about every two seconds or so. Also, take regular glances at the rear view mirrors every five to ten seconds so that you
are aware of the changing situation around you. As the vehicle speed increases, your field of vision would be reduced.
173 Tiredness, giddiness and being unwell can affect your concentration on the road. If you feel unwell or tired, do not drive.
174 Anger, worry and stress can also reduce concentration and may lead to rash or careless driving on the road.
175 Consumption of alcohol and certain types of drugs affect your judgement, concentration and reaction time. If you are on
medication, check with your doctor whether the prescribed medicine you are taking will affect your driving ability. If so, do not
drive. It is also unsafe for you to drive if you have consumed alcohol.
176 It is an offence for a person to drive or attempt to drive a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol. If a driver is suspected to
be under the influence of alcohol, he/she will be required to undergo a breath analyser test. A person with a BAC (Blood Alcohol
Concentration) exceeding 80mg per 100ml of blood is presumed incapable of controlling his/her vehicle properly.
177 WEATHER CONDITIONS
Adverse weather conditions affect your ability to see and be seen.
These conditions are:-

RAIN

FLOOD

STRONG WINDS

178 The basic rules to follow when driving in bad weather conditions are:
(a) Reduce your speed so that you can manoeuvre safely.
(b) Do not out-drive the actual distance that you can see clearly.
(c) Switch on your headlights so that you can see more clearly and be more visible.
(d) Turn on the demister to clear the mist on the windscreen.
(e) Move to a safe spot and stop at the side of the road with your hazard lights turned on if you cannot see clearly. Proceed when
conditions are favourable.
(f) Use a faster front windscreen wiper speed when driving in heavy rain.
179 On a wet road, the stopping distance of a vehicle will increase to about twice the distance of that on a dry road. This is because
there is less friction between the tyres and the wet road surface. On a wet road, stepping hard on the brake pedal (locking the
wheels) will cause the vehicle to skid or spin. If you lock the wheels accidentally, quickly release the brake pedal and apply the
intermittent (ON/OFF) braking technique until the vehicle comes to a stop. Thus, on a wet road, it is important that you drive at
a slower speed to avoid such dangerous circumstances.

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

65
