PART A
DRIVING LICENCES

INTRODUCTION
The “Basic Theory of Driving” handbook is essential reading for all road users in Singapore, which comprise the pedestrians, cyclists,
motorcyclists and drivers. It covers The Highway Code, which includes the traffic rules, traffic regulations, traffic signs and signals,
and it aims to educate and promote road safety for the road users. Many of the rules and regulations in the Code are legal requirements,
and if you disobey them, you are committing a traffic offence. You may be fined and given demerit points on your driving licence,
which may lead to suspension or revocation of your driving licence, or you may be disqualified by the Courts from driving. Knowing
and applying the traffic rules and regulations in The Highway Code could significantly help to reduce road accidents, casualties and
fatalities on our roads.

WHAT IS A DRIVING LICENCE?
1

A driving licence is a legal document issued by the Traffic Police under the Road Traffic Act, which identifies the licensee, sets
out the class(es) of vehicle(s) which he/she may legally drive and states such restrictions or conditions as may apply as well as
the period for which the licence is valid, where applicable.

FITNESS TO DRIVE
2

In order to qualify for a driving licence to drive or ride a motor vehicle on the roads in Singapore, an applicant:
(i) Must be at least 18 years old;
(ii) Must have passed the test of competence to drive;
(iii) Must not be suffering from mental disorder;
(iv) Must not be suffering from epilepsy;
(v) Must not be liable to sudden attacks of disabling giddiness or fainting;
(vi) Must be able to read at a distance of 25 metres (with the aid of glasses, if worn) a series of 6 letters and figures in white on
a black background of the same size and arrangement as those prescribed for the identification mark of a motor vehicle; and
(vii) Must be able to distinguish the colours red, amber and green from a distance of 25 metres.

CLASSES OF DRIVING LICENCES
3

The following table is a list of classes of driving licence granted by the Traffic Police under the law.

DESCRIPTION
Class 1

Class 2B
Class 2A
Class 2
Class 3

Class 3A

Class 3C

Class
3CA
Class 4A

Invalid carriage of unladen weight not exceeding 250 kg and
which are specially designed and constructed, and not merely
adapted, for the use of persons suffering from some physical
defect or disability and are used solely by those persons.
Motor cycles with an engine capacity not exceeding 200 c.c., or
motor cycles which are propelled by electric motor with a power
output not exceeding 15kw and registered as motorcycles.
Motor cycles with an engine capacity between 201 c.c and 400
c.c. and motor cycles propelled by an electric motor with a
power output between 15.1kw and 25kw.
Motor cycle with an engine capacity exceeding 400 c.c. and
motor cycle propelled by an electric engine with a power output
exceeding 25kw.
Motor cars of an unladen weight not exceeding 3000 kg with not
more than 7 passengers, exclusive of the driver; and motor
tractors / vehicles of unladen weight not exceeding 2500 kg.
Motor cars without clutch pedals (auto) of an unladen weight
not exceeding 3000 kg with not more than 7 passengers,
exclusive of the driver; and motor tractors / vehicles without
clutch pedals of unladen weight not exceeding 2500 kg.
Motor cars constructed solely and adapted to carry not more
than 7 passengers (exclusive of the driver) and the weight of
which unladen does not exceed 3000 kg only.
Motor cars without clutch pedals of unladen weight not
exceeding 3000 kg with not more than 7 passengers exclusive
of the driver.
Omnibuses - For public service vehicles which are used on
scheduled services and in which passengers are charged separate
and distinct fares.

ELIGIBILITY
Invalids or those suffering from some physical
defect or disability who are 18 years old and
above.
Be at least 18 years old.
Be in possession of a class 2B Qualified Licence
for at least one year.
Be in possession of a class 2A Qualified Licence
for at least one year.
Be at least 18 years old.

Be at least 18 years old.
Work Permit and S-pass holders only need to
pass the Basic Theory Test to convert their
foreign driving license to be allowed to drive all
Class 3 vehicles except for light goods vehicles,
mini vans and small buses.
The Class 3CA licence is introduced to new
drivers who only want to drive automated Class
3C vehicles.
Be at least 21 years old and in possession of a
class 3 Qualified Licence.

BASIC THEORY OF DRIVING

3
